.TH circle 8 "" "February 2016" "circle 1.1.0"
.SH NAME
circle \- simple firewall manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcircle\fP [\fBOPTIONS\fP] \fBCOMMAND\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcircle\fP is a simple iptables/ip6tables and ebtables control script
that clears previous rules and sets up a firewall from user defined rule files.
.SH RULES
Rule files (files ending with \fI.rules\fP) are read from
\fI\/etc/circle.d/\fP and each line evaluated before added as a firewall rule.
Only lines starting with ${ are used, and any lines containing any of the
patterns \fI.*;.*\fP, \fI\\$(.*)\fP, \fI([&]|[|])\fP, \fI[\\`]\fP are discarded
(and produce a log message and/or warning depending on options used).
.PP
A rule that would normally start with \fBiptables\fP should be defined with
\fB${ipt4}\fP instead. \fBip6tables\fP and \fBebtables\fP respectively should
use \fB${ipt6}\fP and \fB${ebt}\fP.
.SH EXCLUSIONS
Chains that are handled by another application or for any other reason should
not be flushed and destroyed by \fBcircle\fP can be excluded in
\fIipt4-chains.exclude\fP and/or \fIipt6-chains.exclude\fP under
\fI/etc/circle.d/\fP. These files takes the name of one chain per line.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-6
Enable ip6tables in rule files.
.TP
.B \-e
Enable ebtables in rule files. Experimental.
.TP
.B \-i
Log illegal lines encountered in rule files.
.TP
.B \-l LEVEL
Set log level to \fBLEVEL\fP. Allowed values are 2-6, default is 4. Levels are
inclusive with all lower levels. The numbers correspond to:
    6 debug
    5 notice
    4 info
    3 warning
    2 error
.TP
.B \-V
Verbose, show all available output.
.TP
.B \-s
Silent, output nothing but a few error messages.
.TP
.B \-I POLICY
Set a pseudo-policy for the INPUT chain. The actual policy of the built-in
chains remain ACCEPT, but after loading all rules the chain is appended with
\'\-A INPUT \-j \fBPOLICY\fP\'. Default is DROP.
.TP
.B \-F POLICY
Set a pseudo-policy for the FORWARD chain. The actual policy of the built-in
chains remain ACCEPT, but after loading all rules the chain is appended with
\'\-A FORWARD \-j \fBPOLICY\fP\'. Default is DROP.
.TP
.B \-O POLICY
Set a pseudo-policy for the OUTPUT chain. The actual policy of the built-in
chains remain ACCEPT, but after loading all rules the chain is appended with
\'\-A OUTPUT \-j \fBPOLICY\fP\'. Default is DROP.
.TP
.B \-P
Set actual policy instead of pseudo-policy. Modifies options \fB-I\fR, \fB-F\fR,
\fB-O\fR.
.TP
.B \-h
Show help and exit.
.TP
.B \-v
Show version and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B compile
Parse rule files and print the compiled results grouped by tool into stdout.
.TP
.B start
Clear rules and destroy chains, then parse rule files and load the compiled
rules into respective tool.
.TP
.B stop
Clear rules and destroy chains.
.TP
.B restart
Alias for start.
.SH SEE ALSO
iptables(8), ip6tables(8), ebtables(8)
